For my 20th beer I decided to finally brew a proper New England IPA with loads of Galaxy hops which is one of my favorites in general and especially for this style.
It provides a lot of passion fruit and other tropical fruits, and it is also quite dank and catty sometimes. The problem with brewing New England IPAs
at home is that the beers are very susceptible to oxidation and temperature, and have a very short shelf life. From experience with my double dry-hopped
imperial IPA that was completely oxidized after six weeks, I decided not double dry-hop to avoid any unnecessary oxygen exposure. I decided to brew this beer at the
end of December 2018 to have cold outside temperatures that provide a better shelf life for the beer.</br>
The grist for NE IPAs is usually quite simple and protein rich to create a soft, pillowy mouthfeel and to not get in the way of the hops and yeast. I used
82% Golden Promise malt, 9% wheat malt, 7% oat malt, and 2% flaked oats. Besides vast amounts of hops, yeast plays a huge role in making NE IPAs. After
realizing that US-05 is not a proper yeast for this style, and S-04 is way too tangy and tard for my taste, I decided to use Imperial Yeast A38 Juice which is
similar to London Ale III, one of the most used yeasts for NE IPAs.
For the first time I crushed the malts on my own and the mash efficiency went up from 70 to 75%. I did a single-infusion mash at 66°C for an hour and ended up
with an OG of 1.065. Interestingly, oat malt provides huge, strawy husks that create a nice filter bed in the mash tun. I added a very small FWH addition of
Columbus to avoid boil-overs and add a bit to the target bitterness of 55 IBUs. The majority of the hot side hops was a Galaxy whirlpool and 30 minute hop stand
addition.</br>
The yeast from Imperial Yeast comes in pouches with 200 billion cells, so there was no need to make a starter. I pitched at 21°C and fermented at 19°C for the first
week. I then let the temperature slowly rise to 21°C over a couple of days before adding 10 g/l of Galaxy for 4 days. On bottling day, I racked the beer extremely
carefully to avoid any oxidation. The remaining trub had an unusually bright yellow color and smelled absolutely great. I cannot say for certain, but I assume that
there was a lot of bio-transformation going on between the yeast and the hops. I bottle fermented for only one week at 20°C to avoid unnecessary aging.</br>
When I opened the first bottle I got a huge aroma of tropical and also some stone fruits. The beer was opaque yellow with a strong resemblance to orange juice.
Taste was very fruity, juicy, and also slightly resiny with a very soft and creamy mouthfeel. The malts were mainly supporting in the background with some slight sweetness.
The Galaxy hops provided quite a pungent but still balanced bitterness. The body of the beer was medium and not as thick as I expected. I did a gravity check, and the
beer had gone down to 1.011, four points below the 1.015 that I expected. My suspicion is that there was some hop creep that led the yeast to ferment more of the sugar
during dry-hopping. I stored the beer at 11°C and there were absolutely no signs of aging or oxidation after two weeks.</br>
I was really surprised that it was possible to brew a proper, hazy New England IPA at home without kegging and CO2 purging, and I have never been more satisfied with a beer so far.
