In late 2018, I came up with the idea of brewing a dark Saison for the darker season of the year. I have always liked quince as an autumn fruit with its quite
unique character, so I decided to use it as a fruit addition. I was lucky to grab the last fresh quinces of the year at the end of December.
After cleaning and cutting, I put it into the freezer until the brew day next summer. Unfortunately, the main fuse of our appartment popped while we were on
vacation in June 2019 and left the freezer without power for more than a week at 30°C. The quinces were spoiled and no fresh quinces available anymore.
So I decided to use organic quince juice.</br>

The malt bill for this beer was not stout or porter-like but went more in a rustic, dark bread direction. I focussed mainly on wheat, rye, and spelt in different forms.
Besides Maris Otter and some light Munich as base malts, I used 10% flaked spelt, 10% dark wheat, 10% rye, 6% chocolate wheat, and 6% cararye malt.
For the hops I used a small Columbus FWH additon to achive a 25 IBU bitterness. I mashed quite low at 63°C to provide Mangrove Jack's M29 French Saison
yeast with enough simple sugars to create a dry, dark, fruity, and spicy beer.
I ended up with an original gravity of 1.053 and fermented at 24°C for 10 days before refermenting with the added quince juice for another 10 days.
The final gravity was 1.000 which corresponds to 7% ABV. As the yeast seems to like a bit more conditioning time, I waited for six weeks after bottling
before I tried the beer for the first time. This also the gave all the ingredients more time to mellow and balance.</br>

The beer had a dark brown, almost black color with some dark red highlights and a short lasting beige head. The aroma was something like fruity chocolate
with some pepper and dry clove. The mouthfeel, as always with this yeast, was much fuller and rounder than expected at 1.000 FG. The taste began with toasted
rye bread and chocolate, leading to some citrus fruit, and ending in a dry and spicy finish. Interestingly, there was no perceivable roastiness, and the
bitterness was just enough to balance the alcohol sweetness. It will be interesting to see how the beer develops in the coming months and maybe even years.
