My favorite Saisons are Saison d'Epeautre because it's classicly rustic, Saison Fantome as it's the most
inconsistent and weird one but also geniously made, and Saison Bernice which has the greatest mouthfeel and
balance I have ever experienced. So far, I had made five Saisons which were all somehow far from traditional,
and so it was time to brew a simple, classic, and hopefully also rustic Saison.</br>
The first thing to change was the yeast because French Saison yeast is very limited and quite one-dimensional.
My favorite Saison yeast is the one from Brasserie Blaugies but I couldn't get it, and so I used BE-134,
a dry yeast that was said to have a more classical Saison character. The malt bill was close to Saison Bernice
with Pilsner, Vienna, and wheat malt, and a bit of flaked spelt. Keeping it old world and noble, I used only
Hallertauer Mittelfr&uuml;h hops.</br>
As I didn't have any experience with the yeast, I used a traditional four-step mash schedule to get as many
fermentable sugars as possible. I ended up with a 1.048 wort which would make a standard five percent Lager but
in this case a proper six percent Saison. As I like the pronounced bitterness in Saisons from Brasserie de la Senne,
I went for 32 IBUs with first-wort and whirlpool additions.</br>
The yeast was pitched at 26°C and within only two hours it showed signs of activity. The fermentation began furiously
and raised the temperature to 30°C after 24 hours before I started controlling the temperature and stabilized it
at 25°C. The fermentation continued steadily for a couple of days and slowed down rapidly after one week. I let
the yeast do her job for a couple more days before adding 5 g/l of Hallertauer Mittelfr&uuml;h for three days of 
dry-hopping.</br>
The finished beer had an aroma of cinnamon, and clove with hints of pepper and floral notes. Very dry in taste,
it didn't have the perceived sweetness of French Saison beers that is created by huge amounts of glycerol. The
mouthfeel was full and rounded with a lingering medium/high carbonation. Grainy and slightly rustic in taste,
with spicy and fruity notes and a good bitterness in the finish.
