Since trying Pliny the Elder at Stone Brewing in Berlin in 2015, a Double IPA has always been on my list
of beers to brew. In the last couple of years the style has evolved a lot from piney, overly bitter West
Coast examples like Stone Ruination to the more fruity and juicy East Coast versions from the Alchemist,
Trillium, Tree House, and Other Half. When looking for recipe inspirations I found Bissell Brothers' Swish,
one of the most limitedly available and sought after New England DIPAs. It uses a very simple malt bill
and an awfully large amount of hops.<br/>
For the recipe I came up with 85% Pale Ale malt, 11% flaked spelt, and 4% sugar in the malt bill. The hop
schedule consisted of a Columbus FWH addition for most of the bitterness, followed by Citra, Mosaic, Simcoe,
and Columbus in the whirlpool and hopstand to achieve 90 IBU. The majority of the hops went into a Citra,
Mosaic, Simcoe double dry-hopping charge of 3 days each with a total of 16 g/l. My favourite yeast for this
beer would have been Conan, but as I was not in the mood to make a yeast starter and the dry version was
still not available for homebrewers, I used US-05 again. With 1.070 I missed my target OG by 3 points but
it was still enough to reach 8% ABV because the fermentation stopped at 1.010.<br/>
The finished beer was hazy golden with a tropical, piney, and dank aroma. The body was quite light what made
the beer extremely drinkable with hardly any hint of alcohol. Mouthfeel was good but did not have the typical
juiciness of a New England IPA probably due to the used yeast. The sweetness from the malt provided a nice
balance to the profound but pleasant bitterness without any hop burn.<br/>
Unfortunately, the beer degraded very fast. 4 weeks after bottling, it had darkened quite a lot and lost most of
its tropical aroma. It got more of a savoury onion/garlic aroma that is often found in Citra/Mosaic beers.
After 6 weeks, the beer started getting an acetonal sharpness that became stronger with time and made the
beer almost undrinkable. The reason for this fast degradation was the oxidation of the hops from the large
dry-hop charges. Next time I brew a heavily dry-hopped beer I need to be more careful with the oxygen exposure
during dry-hopping and bottling.
