After that big New England IPA I brewed in winter, I wanted to brew a lighter Pale Ale for spring with around 3% ABV, similar to Kernel's Table Beer or Cloudwater's
Small Pale Ale. These low ABV beers require more body and a different grist to compensate the lack of alcohol. The beer should be light and refreshing with just
enough malt backbone. So I created a light, protein-rich grain bill with equal parts of Golden Promise, Maris Otter, light Munich malt, wheat malt, rye malt, and
oat malt. For the hops, I decided to use Motueka for the whirlpool, Motueka and Amarillo for dry-hopping, and a tiny FWH addition of Columbus with a target bitterness of
30 IBU.</br>
To get a higher finishing gravity while having the original gravity of an English Mild or Ordinary Bitter, I came up with the idea to use a very low attenuating
English ale yeast. Choosing a yeast was quite hard as Lallemand's New England yeast was still not available to homebrewers and I didn't want to order and prepare
a liquid yeast. I decided to use Mangrove Jack's M15 Empire Ale.
I targeted an attenuation of roughly 60% with an OG of 1.038 to end up at about 1.015. To achieve that I mashed at 73째C to get as much unfermentable sugars as
possible. Additionally, I also did a no-sparge mash to get a full flavored wort. I expected a mash efficiency of 65% but it was at 72% and bumped the OG to 1.042.
I didn't want to dilute the wort to preserve as much flavor as possible.</br>

After a 60-minute boil, 30-minute whirpool, and cooling, I pitched the yeast at 21째C and fermented at 19째C. Primary fermentation was quite vigorous and finished
after 3 days. I had read the yeast might stall for some days before reaching final gravity, so I waited for another week and ramped up the temperature to 21째C.
After that, I dry-hopped with 9 g/l of Amarillo and Motueka for 3 days, before bottling the finished beer with some priming sugar for 2.4 volumes of CO2.</br>

I first tried the beer after 10 days of bottle fermentation and it was really not what I was aiming for. The beer was overcarbonated, had a yeast twang, and an
aroma of mostly overripe red apples. Most of these things were caused by the yeast. I bottled at 1.014 and it went down to 1.008 in just two weeks and continued
fermenting to create even more carbonation. This was mainly caused by hop creep but also the yeast seemed to be very susceptible to eating more simple sugars,
maybe due to its inability to ferment maltotriose. This yeast also has very unfavorable flocculation and sedimentation characteristics, especially for bottle
conditioning. It forms a nice layer at the bottom which consists mostly of large, easily agitated lumps that create ideal nucleation sites for
carbonation when pouring the beer into a glass.</br>

Once I was able to pour a bottle into a glass without getting half the yeast as well, the beer had a nice mouthfeel and body, and was also very crushable due to
the low ABV. I also got hints of lime, lemon, and even peaches next to the always present overripe red apples. The beer stayed quite hazy for about two months.
I first thought was caused by biotransformation, polyphenols, proteins, and hops, but it was just another trait of this very weird yeast that I will never use again.
Luckily, a next brew day is always coming.
