Making a good non-alcoholic beer is probably more difficult than brewing a barley wine. Alcohol is one of the key factors for the perception
of beer. It affects mouthfeel, sweetness, and body. The easiest and most common way of making beer without alcohol is a stalled
fermentation where the temperature is kept near zero degrees to prevent the yeast from doing its job. The result is mostly a cloyingly
sweet, cereal-like tasting beer that is close to unfermented wort with hops. Urgh. The better way is to make a normal beer and remove the
alcohol afterwards.<br/>
On a commercial level this is mostly done using evaporation of alcohol under vacuum conditions where the boiling point of water is close to 40°C.
Doing this as a homebrewer is not really feasible so I had to think of something to preserve the taste when doing a double boil. I decided
to use absolutely no hops during the initial boil and to use it only in the second one during whirpool and for dry-hopping. The base beer was
a session version of a New England IPA with British Pale Ale malts and flaked oats and spelt for a creamy mouthfeel. I avoided light and medium
crystal malts and used only some CaraPils to compensate the lack of body. For hopping I used only Equinox, first in the whirpool to get a medium
bitterness of 40 IBU, and the rest went into dry-hopping (6g/l) to get some pungeant aroma of tropical fruits.<br/>
I fermented with Danstar London ESB which worked really well in brew #12. This yeast does not ferment maltotriose so I mashed a bit lower to
avoid a lot of residual sweetness. The wort went from 1.040 to 1.010 to produce roughly 4% ABV. I had hoped for a higher FG but I somehow
misunderstood the CaraPils malt. The American version is a very low color crystal malt with lots of unfermentable dextrins. The German version
which I used is a mealy, protein rich malt that helps with producing a lasting foam in Pilsners. For the second boil, I topped up with water
and boiled for an hour to evaporate the alcohol. I then switched off the flame and waited ten
minutes before adding the whirpool hops for half an hour. Directly after the beer was cooled down to 20°C I added the hops for dry-hopping
and left it sitting for 3 days. For bottling I totally miscalculated the amount of priming sugar because I didn't account for the CO2 that was
removed from the beer during the second boil. I decided to re-prime all the bottles with a slight risk of overcarbonating them.<br/>
The finished beer had between 0.5 and 1% ABV due to the refermentation in the bottle. It had a hazy yellow appearance and an aroma of lime,
honey melon, and something that resembles green bell peppers, but in a fruity way. Not bad but also not really juicy and tropical. Columbus and
Citra or Mosaic would have worked better probably. The carbonation was a bit high due to the re-priming and could be easily swirled out.
The body was pretty light, but the mouthfeel was still good and not watery thanks to the flaked grains. Brewing a tasty non-alcoholic beer
at home definitely works, but there was still lots of room for improvement flavor-wise which is mostly recipe related. Mashing high and using
a versatile yeast like US-05 would have been better, probably. Also a light crystal or Munich malt would have added more flavor and body than
CaraPils, I think.
