After three years, it was time for a black IPA again. But this time with a proper gravity and a contemporary grist
that completely lacked crystal malts
but instead used a bit of wheat and munich malt. For me, black IPAs work best with classic north-western American
hops that provide a lot of pine and citrus aroma. I decided to lay the focus on Columbus, one of my favorite C-hops
hops which is rarely used for aroma or even dry-hopping additions due to its pungent and hugely dank aroma. To make
things a bit more interesting, I decided to combine Columbus in the dry-hop with Galaxy which comes with lots of passion
fruit but is also kind of dank.</br>
The malt bill consisted of 50% Golden Promise, 25% Maris Otter, 12% wheat malt, 8% Carafa Special III,
and 5% Munich malt. Lots of British biscuit and toasted flavors, some creaminess, some breadiness, and only
very little roastiness from the dehusked Carafa. I targeted around 6% ABV with a medium bitterness of 60 IBUs.
The bitterness was provided by a smaller FWH and a larger whirlpool addition of Columbus.</br>
I used a single-infusion mash at 67°C, and after boiling for an hour, I ended up with a wort of 1.057 OG which was
just enough for an IPA. For fermentation I used Mangrove Jack's M44 yeast for the first time which allegedly is
Rogue's Pacman yeast. It is quite similar to US-05 and is supposed to let the hops shine while providing a high attenuation and a
very clean ester profile. I started fermenting at 18°C and let it rise to 20°C after three days. Primary fermentation
was finished after ten days. I then added 5 g/l each of Columbus and Galaxy for dry-hopping and let it sit for another 4 days,
before bottling the beer.</br>
The aroma of the finished beer was very piney and dank but unfortunately lacked a lot of the tropical citrus and passion fruit notes that Galaxy
usually brings. It felt like Galaxy was slightly muted either due to Columbus' pungency or the dark malts.
It also took around two weeks for the dark malts and the hops to mellow and balance. Taste-wise the beer had a nice balance of toasted grains
and bread, with subdued roast in the background that reminded me of a Schwarzbier. The mouthfeel was much smoother and creamier than in most
(West Coast) IPAs as was the bitterness. A bit disappointing regarding the aroma, the beer still offered a great drinkability.
