The first time I came across the <a class="bold" href="http://barclayperkins.blogspot.com" target="_blank">
Shut up about Barclay Perkins</a> blog I knew I wanted to make a historical British beer. Besides IPA, Porter
was one of the traditional British beer styles that has almost been forgotten although it was one of the most
popular beer styles in the 18th and 19th century. And there was also an export version of Porter
which had similar hopping rates to IPAs. As I like black IPAs a lot, I decided to make an Export India Porter
and give it a name that honours its source and historical context.<br/>
The malt bill consisted mostly of Maris Otter pale malt. However, one of the key ingredients in a 19th century Porter is brown malt,
a highly kilned malt that imparts lots of mocha, dark chocolate, and roastiness while still providing some biscuity malt taste.
Luckily, brown malt can be made at home from pale malt. So I gave it a try and put some of the Maris Otter malt in the oven.
On the way to making brown malt, I additionally made some amber malt which was also often used in historical Porters.
It provides more of a toasty biscuit flavour. I also added a bit of black malt to get a dark brown color and even more roastiness.<br/>
Hopping was done solely with East Kent Goldings as a first wort and whirlpool addition for around 60 IBUs. For fermentation
I used Lallemand's London ESB yeast, which I initially thought was a dry version of Fuller's ESB yeast.
It is a nice British yeast with some reduced ester production that got the beer from an OG of 1.061 to 1.017 within 24 hours.
After that, it almost stopped and ended up at 1.014 after a week. The yeast hardly flocculates which is quite unusual for
a British yeast, but it maybe helps with avoiding diacetyl. After the fermentation was finished, I dry-hopped with 6g/l to
get that wonderfully earthy/ fruity aroma from the EKGs.<br/>
The finished beer is very interesting and quite unusual. On the one hand, there is a profound hop aroma and bitterness
which is however different from American Porters due to the British hops. And on the other hand, there is quite some body with
lots of dark chocolate and bit of espresso and a malty base in the background. It's so good not to have any caramel,
toffee, raisins, or burnt sugar from crystal malt in a Porter.
