After brewing some really nice Saisons during summer in previous years, it was finally time for a beer with a Kveik yeast.
Kveik are a family of Norwegian farmhouse yeasts that have been brought to greater popularity by
<a href="https://www.garshol.priv.no/blog/" target="blank" class="bold">Lars Marius Garshol</a>. These yeasts usually work best at 30°C
and above while producing very clean beers. They also have a short fermentation time, very high alcohol tolerance, and are usually
POF-. Most of these yeasts come from homebrewers in remote Norwegian villages who have used them for decades. Kveik yeasts can be
stored for years and dried as well.</br>

I decided to use Ebbegarden Kveik which is coming from a homebrewer in Stordal. This yeast produces tropical esters that smell of mango
and papaya, and also seems to be capable of bio transformation. The grist for this beer was very New England-like with Pilsner
and Golden Promise malt for the base, some wheat and rye malt, and the usual flaked oats. For hops, I decided to use a mix of Motueka
and Nelson Sauvin for the aroma side and a bit of Columbus for bittering. I aimed for a Kveik pale ale with 1.050 OG, 5% ABV, and 40 IBU.</br>

I mashed for an hour at 68°C to create a bit more body, followed by a one hour boil with a small Columbus first-wort addition. For the
whirpool and hop stand I added a healthy dose of Motueka and some Nelson. After boiling was finished, I cooled the wort to 30°C and added
some rehydrated Ebbegarden yeast flakes that I had bought in the UK via Ebay. As it was not really hot outside, I wrapped the fermentor with
some towels to keep the temperature. Activity was visible after roughly four hours after pitching and continued for the next five days,
before it slowed down. After ten days of fermentation, I added 10 g/l of Nelson Sauvin and Motueka for three days of dry-hopping.</br>

Seven days after bottling, the yeast had already done a proper job of cleaning up and creating carbonation.
The beer was quite fruity with notes of lime and mango. It had a soft mouthfeel and medium to light body. Taste was dry and fruity with
a good bitter finish. With time, it got more tropical and some bottles even got the typical Nelson white wine/ gooseberry dankness.
But there were also the usual New England-ish oxidation problems, especially with the high temperatures during summer. All bottles
were luckily gone after six weeks.
