After waiting almost two years, I was finally able to use Lallemand's New England yeast in a beer.
I went for an IPA with Citra and Mosaic which is probably the most common hop combination in New England IPAs.
I used a simple malt bill with 80% Golden Promise, 12% wheat malt, and 8% oat malt.
For this brew, I had a change of brewing equipment as my induction cooker broke during the previous one.
I decided to buy a Grainfather as a compromise between manual brewing steps and lots of nice features for having
a shorter brew day. The most important factor, however, was the included counter-flow wort chiller.</br>

Although I read the instruction manual quite thoroughly, I made a major mistake when adding the crushed malt
to the heated water without inserting the grain basket first. The result were busy 30 minutes of getting the grains out and into
the basket while still preserving mash temperature. What a mess. I had also crushed the malt with my old equipment
setting which was way to fine for the Grainfather. This resulted in a 85% mash efficiency but also two hours of
lautering.</br>

After lautering had finished, I used a bit of Columbus as a first-wort addition, and then Citra and Mosaic in the
whirlpool for roughly 45 IBU in total.
I started fermentation at 18°C, increased to 19°C after three days, and then to 20°C for another four days. Then I dry-hopped
with 10 g/l of Citra and Mosaic for three days before bottling for 2.5 vol and conditioning for ten days. The beer finished at 1.012
which is slightly lower than intented but hop creep is hard to avoid in a home brew environment.</br>

The finished beer had a nice opaque yellow-orange color and an aroma of mostly citrus, dank, and catty notes. I am slowly getting tired
of the ever present sweatiness that comes with most Mosaic hops. Citra provided some tropical and citrussy notes but could not
fully balance it. I was also a bit disappointed by the yeast which is supposed to be a dry version of the Alchemist's Conan.
It provided a few indistinct fruity notes but not the usual peach aroma that comes with Conan. Body and mouthfeel were good and created
a nice drinkability at 7% ABV, thanks also to the lower bitterness.


