Almost extinct a couple of years ago, Berliner Weisse is now a favorite of American craft
breweries when it comes to sour beers. Usually brewed with two thirds of Pilsener malt and
one third wheat malt, I decided to replace a portion of the Pilsener with Carafa II special
to make a black Berliner Weisse or "Berliner Schwarze".<br/>
The tart sourness in Berliner Weisse is mainly provided by Lactobacillus and can be twisted by
some Brettanomyces funk. Out of convenience and curiosity, I decided to do sour mashing what I
regretted later. I did a normal single-infusion mash and after it was finished, I added some
uncrushed Pilsener malt, covered it with plastic wrap, and let it sit for two days. When I started
lautering, the mash had a strongly sour but not necessiraly unpleasant odor. I added the Carafa
II special during recirculation, collected some nicely black wort, and started boiling for
90 minutes to get rid of potentially harmful bacteria.<br/>
Boiling the sour wort was quite disgusting as it had a strange sour coffee aroma that was present
in the kitchen for two weeks. At the end of the boil I added some German Cascade and Huell Melon hops for
some fruity aroma.
I fermented the wort with US-05 and added the bottle dregs of Siren's "All Bretts are off" when the primary
fermentation was finished to give the Brett a chance to do it's magic. I left the beer with the
Brett for three months and then bottled it.
After additional four weeks I had a first try and it was pretty disgusting due to the lovely
smell and taste of vomit which is an indication of butyric acid that was probably created by
Clostridium bacteria.<br/>
Luckily, not all is lost as some Brett strains are able to convert butyric
acid into something that tastes like pineapple, given enough time. I decided not to dump it and to
give it at least six months before trying another bottle.
If I brew another sour beer, I will definitely not use sour mashing again as the risk of bacterial
infection other than lactobacillus is just too high. Instead, I will make a lactobacillus starter
either from a pure culture or by adding some uncrushed malt to starter wort in a more controlled
environment. This will than be used in a mixed culture fermentation with Saccharomyces and optionally
Brettanomyces.
